.TH catnip 5 "2024-05-11" "1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
config.toml and distros.toml \- Catnip configuration and art files
.SH SYNOPSIS
~/.config/catnip/config.toml ~/.config/catnip/distros.toml
.SH DESCRIPTION
You can change the names, colors, and icons for the various stats inside the stats section of the config.toml file.
.TP
To create a new DistroArt object inside the distros.toml file, add a new section to the file.
.TP
.SH CONFIGURATION
.TP
If you don't want to display a stat, you can just comment out the line.
.TP
You can change the order in which the stats are displayed by just changing the order in the config.
.TP
Separators are defined by creating a new key with the sep_ prefix. The value of the key can be anything.
.TP
To display multiple disks, just create a new stat is named disk_[index]. To check what the index of the disk you want to add is, just run catnip -g disks.
.TP
.SH LAYOUT
.TP
In the layout you can define how the logo and stats will be arranged.
.TP
Use Inline to place the logo and stats next to each other.
.TP
Use ArtOnTop to place the logo on top of the stats.
.TP
Use StatsOnTop to place the stats on top of the logo
.TP
.SH FIGLET LOGOS
.TP
\fBenable\fR
Set enable to true/false to enable or disable figlet generated logos.
.TP
\fBcolor\fR
Use color to set the color the figlet logos should have.
.TP
\fBfont\fR
Use font to set what font figlet should use.
.TP
\fBmargin\fR
Use margin to define the margins of the figlet logos.
.TP
.SH IMAGE MODE
\fBenable\fR
Set enable to true/false to enable or disable image mode.
.TP
\fBpath\fR
Use path to define what image file to display.
.TP
\fBscale\fR
Use scale to set the scale of the image.
.TP
\fBmargin\fR
Use margin to define the logo margins.
.TP
.SH DISTRO ART
.TP
\fBmargin\fR
The margin key is used to define the top, left and right margins of the art.
.TP
\fBart\fR
The art key is used to define the ascii-art for your distro.
.TP
\fBalias\fR
The alias key can be used to define alternate names that should also refer to the DistroArt Object.
.TP
.SH COLORS
Catnip's color system uses a ColorId, which is made up of the colors first and last letter, enclosed in characters that indicate the type of color.
.TP
\fBColor Types:\fR
.TP
Foreground Normal -> (#)
.TP
Foreground Bright -> {#}
.TP
Background Normal -> [#]
.TP
Background Bright -> <#>
.TP
"#" is a color ID.
.TP
\fBColor IDs:\fR
.TP
BLACK -> Background
.TP
RED -> RD
.TP
GREEN -> GN
.TP
YELLOW -> YW
.TP
BLUE -> BE
.TP
MAGENTA -> MA
.TP
CYAN -> CN
.TP
WHITE -> WE
.TP
.SH MORE INFORMATION
For more information on configuration, go to https://github.com/iinsertNameHere/catnip
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
\fBfiglet\fP(6)
.TP
\fBcatnip\fP(1)
